Questionmark Perception connector for Blackboard 9
Written at the University of Southampton by Bart Nagel (bjn@ecs.soton.ac.uk) and 
Alex Frazer (ajf06r@ecs.soton.ac.uk) in 2009 for Questionmark
Licenced under the Apache Software License, see LICENSE.txt for details.

INSTALLATION

1. Pip file
	First, install the Blackboard Pip file. To do this, copy the 
	pip/blackboard.pip file to pip directory (for instance C:\Program 
	Files\Questionmark\Perception4\server\pip) on the server running Perception.
2. Profiles
	Next, log into Perception Enterprise Manager and set up two new 
	administrator profiles, "Blackboard Instructor" and "Blackboard TA" for 
	instructors and teaching assistants, respectively. You may already have 
	these set up from earlier versions of the connector. If not, they need to 
	have suitable permissions for the operations you want people in these roles 
	to be able to perform.
3. Perception settings
	Certain settings must be set correctly in the Perception configuration. They 
	can be set in Enterprise Manager (administration -> server management -> 
	server settings) or manually in the perceptionv4.ini file (usually in 
	C:\Program Files\Questionmark\Perception4\server). The required settings are 
	as follows:
	-	Redirection method = 4
	-	TrustRequire = 0
	-	SecurityRequire = 1 (not required but recommended)
	-	Enable exlogin = 1 (required if instructors are to be able to log in to 
		Enterprise Manager)
	-	Allow external EM entry (required if instructors are to be able to log 
		in to Enterprise Manager)
4. Reset Perception DLLs
	After changing Perception configuration the Perception DLLs must be reset. 
	This is done in Enterprise Manager by going to administration -> server 
	management -> reset Perception server DLLs.
5. Reset QMWise
	After getting to this point you must reload the QMWise configuration, for 
	instance by invoking the SetConfiguration method via the QMWise Test 
	Harness.
6. Install Building Block
	Follow the standard procedure for installing a Blackboard Building Block:
	1.	Log in to Blackboard as an administrator
	2.	Go to system admin -> building blocks -> installed tools -> upload 
		building blocks
	3.	Click "browse"
	4.	Locate and choose the PerceptionPlugin.war file
	5.	Click "submit"
	6.	Activate the plugin by finding its entry on the installed tools list and 
		choosing available from the dropdown menu
	7.	Approve the privileges the connector requires

CONFIGURATION

The connector is configured by clicking "settings" on the connector's row of the 
installed tools list.

The only required settings are the Perception server details. If Perception is 
running on the same host as Blackboard the default settings may be fine. If you 
have switched SecurityRequire on in Perception's settings, security must be 
enabled for the connector.

Once the settings have been configured as desired, click "submit" to save them. 
To then test the connection to Perception, click "OK". A success message means 
everything should be working as expected; a failure message means you should 
double check your settings.

USAGE

The connector is accessed by both instructors and course participants by logging 
in to Blackboard and, from a course page, then clicking "tools" and then 
"Questionmark Perception Connector".

Instructors and teaching assistants have buttons to synchronize users and 
scheduled assessments with Perception and log into Enterprise Manager. 
Synchronization of participants and groups (courses) is one way: changes in 
Blackboard are reflected in Perception and not the other way around. On the 
other hand, if a schedule is set up in Enterprise Manager and assigned to the 
course group it will appear in Blackboard.
After these buttons there follows a list of assessments scheduled to the course, 
a list of results and a form to schedule an assessment.
In order for results to appear in the Blackboard gradebook, assessments must be 
scheduled from this form, a unique schedule name must be chosen and the "store 
results in gradebook" checkbox must be checked.

Course participants instead see a list of assessments which have been scheduled 
with links to take them.

UNINSTALLATION

To uninstall the connector:
1.	Log in to Blackboard as an administrator
2.	Go to system admin -> building blocks -> installed tools
3.	Click "delete" on the connector's row of the installed tools list and 
	confirm the dialog

Uninstallation is functionally complete at this point but configuration files 
and the Pip file remain.
The Pip file can simply be deleted from the pip directory on the Perception 
server.
The configuration files are stored on the Blackboard server at 
<Blackboarddir>/content/vi/bb_bb60/plugins/qm-qmpp/config and can be simply 
deleted (along with the parent directory qm-qmpp). They can alternatively be 
harmlessly left in place in case the connector is later reinstalled.

BUILDING

Before you can build the connector you must obtain copies of the required
libraries and copy them from your Blackboard installation to the 'external'
directory.  For a list of required files please refer to the external/README.txt
file.

Building the plugin has been tested in Linux and Mac OS X environments. To 
build, change to the root (e.g., trunk) directory and run
./make.sh

To package to a War file, from the same directory run
./package.sh

The output is the file PerceptionPlugin.war in the same directory.

During development, the script install.sh was used for a speedy installation to 
the testing server. This requires the "Starting Block" building block, available 
from Blackboard. The install.sh script would also need to be edited to point to 
the relevant server.

NOTES

A user "bb-phantom" is created and assigned to every Perception group the
connector produces (one for each course). This is to enable the use of
individual schedules, for example when limiting attempts.  This user should
simply be ignored: it MUST NOT be deleted.

vi:set ts=4 sts=4 sw=4 tw=80 fo=crqwnlta nojs spl=en_gb:
